{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 You know what I mean? \
The cows, you know, when I wrote that song \'91Walking the cow\'92, you know? And then I see some people really liking that song, you know? What do they think I meant? What do they think I meant by the cow? What did I think walking the cow? What did I think, I thought was walking the cow, was walking responsibility \
\'97\
\
BBC: Where do you come from, Ted? \
\
Hughes: From, um, originally Fromm Mytholmroyd (googled this) near Halifax \
\
BBC: And what about you Sylvia? \
\
Plath: Oh I was born in Boston Massachusetts but, um, I think I\'92m over here in England to stay now\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BBC: Well somehow now there\'92s a making between Yorkshire and the United States, um, would you like to tell us how it happened? \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Hughes: Well I left Cambridge in, uh, 1964, but I still had friends there that I used to go back and see now and again. And one of these friends produced a poetry magazine., this magazine just sold one issue, anyway, I had some poems in this and we had a celebration the day it came out\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Plath: To which I came, I happened to be at Cambridge, I was sent there by the government on a government grant and I had read some of Ted\'92s poems in this magazine, I was very impressed and I wanted to meet him and uh, I went to this little celebration and that\'92s actually where we met. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BBC: and How did you develop this first meeting? \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Plath: Well I think we saw each other again, on a Friday the 13th of something, in London didn\'92t we somehow after this. And, um, then we saw a great deal of each other\'85 til I came back to Cambridge and suddenly we found ourselves getting married a (laughs) few months later \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Hughes: I had saved some cash, uh, I had been working for about 3 months and everything I saved a blew it on a courtship which lasted about 3 months \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BBC: What was the actual form of this proposal? \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Plath: We kept writing poems to each other, and, uh, then it just grew out of that, I guess, a feeling that that we both were writing, so, so much, and having such a fine time doing it we just decided that this should keep on \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Hughes: Mmhmm, the poems, the poems haven\'92t really survived, the marriage overtook the poems \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BBC: Well I was going to say, I mean, in none of these books of poetry is there anything, apart from the dedications to Ted, to Sylvia, which, um, really, I couldn\'92t interpret as being to each other or even about each other. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Plath: Well I think that, that, all the poems that we wrote to each other and about each other were really um before our marriage and then something happened, I don\'92t know what it was, I, I hope it was ultimately good but we began to be able to, well, somehow, free ourselves for other subjects and, uh, I think the dedications, at least as far as mine goes, I feel that I never be writing as I am and as much as I am with- without Ted\'92s uh understanding and cooperation really. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BBC: Did you - have you actually been to the states yourself, Ted? \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Hughes: Yes, I was there about 3 years and while I was over there I taught and, uh, we travelled around America and I got enough money to live. When we came back here we\'92ve been living on this cash ever since. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BBC: and what about your childhoods, cause they must have been quite considerably different, I think? Uh, there\'92s a, a poem of yours called The Disquieting Muses, in which, I think (\'97) there\'92s a certain amount of autobiography and um, also you write a lot about the sea \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Plath: I was brought up on the, uh, northern coast of, uh, Massachusetts and my whole childhood was spent on the ocean and I remember the uh the very spectacular hurricanes we used to have where my grandmother\'92s cellar would be flooded and there would be sharks washed up on the garden and so forth and the image of the sea has been with me ever since even though I\'92ve I\'92ve um been in England for a few years and I think one always goes back to to something as vivid and colorful as that sort of experience and I know that the sea comes into, um, a great many of my poems sometimes it\'92s just a subconscious sea, a sort of flow of thoughts and so other times its the real sea itself \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BBC: Were you a happy child, did you have a sort of sporty life or did you live in your imagination a great deal?\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Plath: Well, I think I was happy up to the age of about nine  very carefree and I believed in magic which uh which influenced me a good bit and then at 9 I was rather disillusioned, I stopped believing in elves and Santa Claus and all these little beneficent powers and became more realistic and depressed I think and then gradually uh became more adjusted about the age of sixteen, seventeen but I I certainly didn\'92t have a happy adolescence and perhaps that\'92s partly why I uh I turned specially to writing as, I I I wrote diary stories and so forth and was quite introverted during those early years \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BBC: What about you, Ted? Um, in your poetry, the landscape of the poetry really is the landscape isn\'92t it, of Yorkshire Dale \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Hughes: It was the Yorkshire/orchard, yeah \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BBC: and, and the characters are very often um, rural types or in fact, animals, the animal creation um particularly the wild, um, these like otters and stokes and so on? \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Hughes: Mhmm. I was interested in the animals, um, I really began being interested in the animals. In fact, my earliest memories are of my, uh, toys which are all little led animals which you could buy then. I had dozens of these. When I was 4 an aunt bought me an animal book, big animal book, which was sort of a bible for me for the next 5 years \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BBC: Did you manipulate them or did you really participate, did you feel you were almost a small animal yourself?\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Hughes: I don\'92t know, I can\'92t remember. And I used to make animals with plasticine and draw them \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BBC: Were you a country boy? \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Hughes: Mmm yes. Mytholmroyd isn\'92t really a village but the country comes right down on it, on every sign and uh, my brother was a great one for wandering about with a rifle and in fact he was uh, he did little elves and he used to take me along as a sort of retriever. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BBC: What was the line of your progress from there to Cambridge? \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Hughes: Well then, uh, we left Mytholmroyd when I was about 8 and all that we sealed off we moved to \'97 which was industrial and depressing and dirty. Well at the time, it was all very unhappy but it was all a very good thing. Um it became, it became a much richer experience for me than my previous 7 years had been and it being so different it really sealed off my first 7 years so that now I have memories of my first 7 years which, uh, my first 7 years seems almost half of my life. I remembered almost everything because it was sealed off in that particular way, it became a sort of brain, another subsidiary brain for me. And anyway I went to Mexico grammar school and uh, I wasn\'92t very interested in any lessons, but I was writing and the teachers seemed interested in my writing so this, I gradually concentrated absolutely everything on writing. It began to seem possible that through my writing I might go to university and get scholarships and so on. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BBC: Would you say that, uh, your temperaments are parallel or do you seem they are in conflict in the sense that uh it\'92s a marriage of opposites? \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Hughes: I think superficially we are very alike. We like the same things. We live at the same tempo. Have the same, sort of, um rhythm in um almost every way but obviously this is a very fortunate covering for temperaments that are extremely different. But we live secret lives, you see, they contend themselves in a, in an imaginative world so they never really come into a conflict.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BBC: The impression that uh you spend your whole married lives just thinking of poems and reading them to each other \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Plath:  I think our (\'97) life is practically indistinguishable from all the people who live around us the only main difference is that Ted doesn\'92t go out to work at 9 and come home at 5. If he retires about 9 to his room and works but I certainly have a life like the housewives and mothers in our district, shopping dishes and taking care of the baby and so forth and I think very few people have an idea I do anything at all except uh household chores and so on. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Hughes: And really in 4 years if you\'92ve written 80 poems it\'92s not really very many. You\'92re not writing poems the whole time, you seem to go months and never write a thing so really your life is uh very much like everybody else\'92s most of the time \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BBC: Where do you live? \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Hughes: In new Camden town \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Plath: Really by Primrose Hill Zoo, that\'92s one of the reasons we like it so much, we\'92re always going to the zoo with the baby and so forth. We can hear the seals barking in the summertime. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BBC: How much room have you got to live in? \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Plath: Oh, not enough (laughs) We have a very small flat, uh, a bedroom, a sitting room, a kitchen and a bar which is a uh, rather juggling feeling when it comes to managing a 9 month old baby and uh we\'92re dreaming of a house I can shout to Ted from one end to the other and he won\'92t be able to hear me but I don\'92t know how far away that is. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 BBC: Did you find it necessary to keep yourselves separate from each other? \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Hughes: I can write with people in the room quite easily. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Plath: Yes, Ted\'92s better at that than I am \'97\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Hughes: Sometimes \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Plath: I really need to, need to be by myself otherwise I\'92m too tempted to talk and and uh so on, I\'92m much more distracted I think in that way \
\
BBC: Well they say that 2 can live as cheap as one but even so (laughs) it must be quite expensive. Have you got jobs outside of writing? \
\
Hughes: No, not at present. We had in America. Where we both taught. \
\
Plath: and then I was a secretary for a while and I always can take up a secretarial job or a part time job if we get close to starving or if I seem a (larder\'92s?) to bear or something to that effect, but we\'92re quite flexible since both of us are able to work and have worked together and then (\'97) so uh the circumstances have allowed us to. \
\
Hughes: Before then I did jobs just for short times. I worked as a sort of script reader and as a nightwatchman and I worked for a rose gardener for a little while. Present we\'92re living more or less on what we, uh, writing has helped to eek it out uhh, our last lump of savings which are mainly from teaching is running out, we\'92ll have to get another lump now from somewhere \
\
Plath: And Ted had a grant, a writing grant, which was a help but um, we actually look ahead to year to year and don\'92t, uh, try very hard not to look ahead beyond that because uh when you\'92re writing you don\'92t have any 20 year pension plans or anything of that sort and need a bit more faith and brazenness perhaps I think than if one has a steady job\
\
BBC: But would you have it any other way? \
\
Plath: I wouldn\'92t, no. Not at all. Even being a very practical and domestic housewife as I am, I think the advantages are too great to want to change \
\
Hughes: You begin to worry about money if you get a job \
\
(Sylvia laughs) \
\
BBC: Has the baby made a big difference to the running of the house? \
\
Plath: Well, actually I was amazed when I found how easy she was, I had wondered if I\'92d be swallowed up in motherhood and never feel any time to myself but uh somehow she\'92s fitted in beautifully and it\'92s amazingly little trouble I mean she doesn\'92t yell and cry and she plays by herself and it\'92s very, uh, amusing and I think both of us have uh have written good many poems to her and find her more entertaining than uh, than anything \'97 \
\
Hughes: Not just (\'97) She\'92s kind of aerial you know, she brings in a whole range of um, feelings. A whole world \'97\
\
Plath: An experience. \
\
Hughes: Before. Like a cat, only much better. \
\
Plath: I think we\'92re both very much family oriented. I mean I large house sort of stocked with small children and small animals \
\
BBC: At what stage are you going to start introducing the child to actually listening to poetry? \
\
Plath: She already is listening to nursery rhymes which I consider poetry. I don\'92t believe in being self conscious about it. That everything from uh little nursery rhymes and songs to Elliot\'92s practical \'97 what is it? Practical cats is perfect material. \
\
BBC: I take it you can\'92t continue to draw on your childhood memories and so on for your poetry. What is the more continuing source, continuing inspiration for the writing you\'92re doing now?\
\
Hughes: Well apart from the experiences of your own life, my experiences in my life, I also have in uh in a way, Sylvia\'92s experiences of hers and all the experiences that she\'92s had in the past. It\'92s like um, uh, a medium who is an automatic writer, you know? Just on a pad. And watch you write it need not be a doll, the contest of her own mind, need\'92nt be anything she knows but it\'92s something that someone in the room knows of somebody that she\'92s very close to now and in this way, two people are sympathetic to each other and who are right, who are compatible in this sort of uh spiritual way, they in fact make up one person, they make up one source of power which you both use and you can draw out, uh, you can draw out material in incredible detail from this single shared mind and I\'92m sure that this is suddenly a source of a great deal in my poetry I don\'92t know whether it works the other way around, I suspect it does. It\'92s not that you choose the same things to write about necessarily, and you certainly don\'92t write about them in the same way. It\'92s that, you, uh, you draw on an experience as though you knew more about something than you from your own live have ever really learned and in fact it seems, from what I\'92ve seen of this, that you\'92re drawing also, I\'92m drawing also on my wife\'92s knowledge of it. \
\
BBC: It\'92s a very hard thing to put into words, isn\'92t it? \
\
Hughes: Yes, a complicated idea to get across because you first of all, to believe that this sort of telepathic union exists between two sympathetic people which of course a lot of people don\'92t believe. \
\
BBC: Is that how you would\'92ve put it? \
\
Plath: Me, well, I think perhaps I\'92m a little more practical about it not quite so abstract. I can give an example. For instance, Ted\'92s interest in animals made me look back into my own life and my father, among other things, was a biologist and happened to keep bees. And I, oh I didn\'92t much about this time but I\'92ve become very interested in bee keeping and the image of bee keeping has become part of my poems and I think this is a direct result of knowing Ted. Somehow I know more about my own past through him than I would otherwise. But I\'92m also influenced by art, by paintings and sculptures, a lot of my poems describe paintings and take of from a visual image and go on from there. \
\
BBC: I do find, in your poetry, certain similarities to, are interested in that same sort of world and in a way you do write in a similar way about it. Don\'92t you find, the two of you, that being married, being in close contact like you are, and also having a basic similarity of approach, there\'92s a great danger that your poetry will tend to almost collapse, the one into the other \
\
Plath: I\'92d like to know how you think the poems are alike, because this is something that no one else has ever, ever remarked on before and I\'92ve always thought that our subject matter in particular, and also the form in which we write, the forms, are really quite different and I\'92m interested to know where you think the coincide. \
\
BBC: I don\'92t think there\'92s a difference to all that, I think your type of contortion, the way your line writes over into the next line sort of technical trick of vigor, the way you use syntax words. Also you both have a concern, I think, with with the animal creation. Not that other poets don\'92t. And also with uh a type of rural landscape and the way it is, it\'92s very similar I think\
\
Plath: Well I think this was too in our poems really before we knew each other or met each other and uh in that sense we would probably be alike, if we are at all alike, whether we had ever encountered each other and so I don\'92t think this is a result of our meeting, it\'92s something that went on before I mean we were writing for 10 years before we ever heard of each other. \
\
Hughes: I think it\'92s something we share with several other writers too. Several other people writing now. \
\
Plath: And the kind of toughness and naughtiness that we admire, both of us, I think, again, it\'92s something we both have always, always admired and perhaps that\'92s why we, um, we met in the first place. Because we both felt that we had the similar interest. \
\
Hughes: Whenever we do happen to write about a similar thing, the main, uh the interesting thing about it is how differently we do treat it and how differently we approach it. \
\
Plath: I think one of the examples of this is we each have a poem on a pig, perhaps this is why people seem to think that we\'92re alike but I\'92m sure that anybody compare these two poems and see the immense difference in the handling and attitude towards piggery that uh Ted has and that I have. I know my own distaste for uh a certain kind of slack, lyrical quality or flowerness isn\'92t really confined to, you know, my own poetry and Ted, but to anybody, anybody we know, anybody we know of who is writing now and what we admire in each other perhaps is something we admire in other people too\
\
Hughes: Sylvia\'92s pig is a legendary gargantuan pig, um, it\'92s sort of an assembly of all piggishness and excessive piggeriness \'97 \
\
Plath: Oh come on (laughs) \
\
Hughes: And mine is what\'92s left when a pig has disappeared. In other words, what\'92s left of a pig when the pig is no longer a pig, when it\'92s a dead pig and in a way this is a, this is the complete um reversal of Sylvia\'92s theme. \
\
BBC: Does music play a part in your lives? \
\
Plath: Well I think Ted\'92s much more musically inclined than I am. I, I learnt to play the piano and the viola and I played in the school orchestra but this was more forced on me and I happened to be tone deaf and unable to carry a tune and felt quite unhappy because of this and it\'92s only since I\'92ve known Ted that I\'92ve listened to music, particularly Beethoven. Actually, we started living under a was it a death mask, I think it was death mask of Beethoven \'97\
\
Hughes: It was a live mask \
\
Plath: a live mask sorry \'97\
\
Hughes: I think Beethoven for instance had more influence on me than any other single artist in any medium \
\
BBC: In what way? \
\
Hughes: Forming my temperament I think or giving it a, giving it a certain direction one which I was very inclined to take \
\
BBC: in other words, you like the way he feels, you like the way that he expresses his own realities, the things he\'92s seen (and thought about) \
\
Hughes: Yes, And this completely dominated me from the age of seventeen to, well, to, I was twenty six when I really let all my records and gramophone in England and I don\'92t know how this influences directly writing but it certainly influences your imagination and your, uh, the coherence of your imagination \
\
BBC: A good way to crown off this conversation would be to let the listeners hear a poem from each of you.}